# India Income Tax Return Filing Scripts

Scripts to auto-fill ITR schedules or forms

## Scripts

### Table A3 Schedule FA Data Processor for ITR 2/3

This repository contains a Python script designed to assist in filing Table A3 of Schedule FA under ITR 3.  
The script fetches US stock market values for one of the listed company and USD to INR conversion rates from January 2023 to December 2023, generating specific data for the monthly vesting date of each month (or the next available trading day) and performs investment-related calculations.

## Features

- Generates Investment Value, Peak Value & Closing Value for a given no. of stocks of the company at the vested date stock market price and USD/INR exchange rate for 2023 year in INR.
- Handles edge cases when the granted date is not a trading day.
- Generates necessary data for filing Table A3 of Schedule FA under ITR 3.

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- `pandas`
- `requests`

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/whattadarsh/itr.git
   cd itr
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Usage

1. Replace the placeholder `YOUR_API_KEY` in the script with your actual [Alpha Vantage API key](https://www.alphavantage.co/support/#api-key).

2. Run the script:

   ```sh
   python sched_fa_table_a3.py
   ```

3. The script will print the output for each month, including the investment value, peak investment value and closing value in INR. This data can be used for filing Table A3 of Schedule FA under ITR 

## Example Output

```text
Date: February 27, Monday, 2023, No. of stocks: 150.0
Investment Value: 13480.50 INR
Peak Values of investment: 1754536.66 INR
Closing Value: 13480.50 INR
INR/USD Conversion Rate: 82.6520
...
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and create a pull request with your changes.

## Disclaimer

> _This script is completely generated by ChatGPT-4 and works perfectly fine._
